---
layout: post
title:  "coding-is-like-computing"
date:   2025-02-06
---

I follow Amjad Masad on Twitter. Night before yesterday they announced that they were overhauling their mobile app. From being a "learn coding" platform for someone like me, they were transitioning to "make an app for that". I downloaded the app the following morning. I came back from a run at 7 am, and got to cooking breakfast. The app had some prompts of how you could start off - I chose the plant care prompt because plants. Over the next 30-45 minutes, I have intermittently interacted with this application. Sometimes it would declare what it was going to do as next step and ask for a go-ahead. Sometimes I asked for a feature. There was a particular feature that wasn't working well ("Take Photo"), and we went back and forth trying to make it work. At the end of it, I had a working app (on their dev instance) before the credits ran out. 

It was a revealing experience. More than anything else, as a dilettante coder at best, this was the first tool that took me to a finish line. It reminded me of how I had learned hardware - the Arduino platform had been around for a few years, and, without any formal hardware training (there's some that a civil engineering education might expose you to), over the course of a few months, I was able to build a prototype by hacking, prodding, and learning in bits and pieces. I'd have a chip on my shoulder for a long time about not having gone through a rigorous bottom-to-top learning course, or having devoured an electronics and electricals notebook start to finish. But, about eleven years later, here we are, running a hardware company which has had atleast some success. 

I suspect this might be much bigger than the Arduino moment for Code. This might almost be the Hidden Figures moment for Code. Remember in the movie Hidden Figures, they had humans who were called computers? To calculate orbital trajectories and everything else by hand? I went through a 90s-2000s childhood/adolescence without having known anything about this. Writing Code might also go down the same road. There are likely to be super specialised software engineering specialists who are in high demand, because there would be a lot of code all around. And there are likely to be a lot of dilettante coders who would fire up a web app (or whatever form this takes) like people do Excel sheets. And there might be a lot of dilettantes like me, who are super specialised application builders, with deep generic ability to doggedly chase details. But without formal training or experience. 
